README.md, before:

# Artemis Code

For processing time-resolved photoelectron data at the ARTEMIS facility

## Data Structure

process.py takes a run folder and t0 (stage position) to generate tof / delay matrix

### Data structure

Run folder (e.g "275 transdce_XUV_real_scan") contains subdirectories (N = 20, N = 40 etc) which are the cumulatively saved photoelectron counts. 

The full data set is therefore the max N file (in this example, N = 1152)

Within each N directory is the pixel to TOF conversion file (TDC Time.tsv), and a .tsv file for each stage delay position (eg -22.98000.tsv).

For each delay file, the photoelectron counts are found in the first column. 

From these files, process.py:

* converts pixel to TOF times from "TDC Time.tsv"
* Generates a list of delay stage position in mm (from the filename) and converts to delay time in fs. This requires the estimated t0 stage position (must be entered manually)
* Takes the photoelectron counts and generates a tof/delay matrix (using the file for the maximum number of cycles). This is plotted and saved in the "processed_runs" directory for future analysis.

### Example usage

The data folder contains an example run from a previous experiment:

McGhee, Henry G., et al. "Ultrafast photochemical processes in 1, 2-dichloroethene measured with a universal XUV probe." *Physical Chemistry Chemical Physics* 26.45 (2024): 28406-28416.

Only

Commit message:

Added tof2eKE calibration. Added analysis notebook

README.md, after:

# Artemis Code

For processing time-resolved photoelectron data at the ARTEMIS facility

## Work Flow

### 1. process.py

Specify the run folder and t0 parameter. This will save the tof / delay matrix. The first row and column are the tof/delay values respectively. The matrix elements are the photoelectron intensities. Script will save this matrix in "processed_data"

### 2. tof_calib.ipynb

Jupyter notebook for performing tof to eKE calibration. Saves calibration parameters in calibrations folder

### 3. calib.py

Takes a processed dataset (from step 1), and calibration parameters (from step 2) to generate an eKE calibrated matrix (with jacobian correction applied to the photoelectron intensities). Data is saved in the processed_data folder with the original filename with "_jac" appended. 

### 4. analysis.ipynb

Analysis notebook for loading in saved files (either calibrated or not) and plotting heatmaps and kinetic / spectral lineouts. 

## Data structure

Run folder (e.g "275 transdce_XUV_real_scan") contains subdirectories (N = 20, N = 40 etc) which are the cumulatively saved photoelectron counts. 

The full data set is therefore the max N file (in this example, N = 1152)

Within each N directory is the pixel to TOF conversion file (TDC Time.tsv), and a .tsv file for each stage delay position (eg -22.98000.tsv).

For each delay file, the photoelectron counts are found in the first column. 

From these files, process.py:

* converts pixel to TOF times from "TDC Time.tsv"
* Generates a list of delay stage position in mm (from the filename) and converts to delay time in fs. This requires the estimated t0 stage position (must be entered manually)
* Takes the photoelectron counts and generates a tof/delay matrix (using the file for the maximum number of cycles). This is plotted and saved in the "processed_runs" directory for future analysis.

### Example usage

The data folder contains an example run from a previous experiment:

McGhee, Henry G., et al. "Ultrafast photochemical processes in 1, 2-dichloroethene measured with a universal XUV probe." *Physical Chemistry Chemical Physics* 26.45 (2024): 28406-28416.
